# DG.Hire Interprets the Risks of Cross border Employment

> Original article address: https://www.dghire.com/info/guide/05750b6a372b45882890b1fd54d8ca41

Engaging in cross-border trade and commercial activities has its advantages. However, it also comes with considerable risks. From national conflicts to global dynamic political, economic, and regulatory environments, international business risk factors and challenges make it difficult for companies to maintain sustained growth and revenue.

The general meaning of business risk referred to here is a decrease in business performance or a significant decrease in expected returns.

The risks of conducting business overseas include price distortions caused by supply transfers, resource reallocation, capital losses, and reduced returns. Given the fragility associated with international business, cross-border expansion requires greater attention to risk identification, assessment, and mitigation.

## International Business: Risks and Challenges

Although every country provides opportunities for overseas investors and companies, the international business market is turbulent and dynamic, with unprecedented risks.
However, the risks of international business are not limited to one region. When enterprises engage in cross-border trade and economic activities, they face multiple challenges, from specific country trade restrictions to international trade law.

The following are some key international business risk factors that the company encounters when expanding overseas.

## Foreign exchange risk

Foreign exchange risk refers to the fluctuation of investment value due to changes in currency exchange rates. Also known as Foreign exchange risk, currency risk or FX risk, it means that the investment value decreases due to the change in the relative value of the participating currencies.

Foreign exchange risk is one of the most prominent risk factors in international business. This situation occurs when a company engages in financial transactions involving currencies other than its domestic currency. Any appreciation/depreciation of domestic or foreign currencies will affect the cash flow of international transactions. Protecting your company from such risks is a challenge due to the constantly changing exchange rates.

## Political risk

The political climate is a key factor in determining how your business develops in a country. When a country's government unexpectedly changes its policies, political risks arise and have a negative impact on businesses. For example, the government of a country may change its foreign trade policies, such as trade barriers that may have adverse effects on the trade of overseas companies.

Some governments may impose tariffs and quotas on imported products to protect domestic producers from foreign competitors. Therefore, companies exporting to countries with trade barriers experience a decrease in revenue and profits due to increased export taxes. Therefore, the laws and policies of foreign governments can greatly affect the profits of a global company.

## Regulatory risk

Regulatory risks in international business mean that sudden changes in a country's laws and regulations can affect global markets and specific business sectors. The company must comply with these regulations formulated by regulatory agencies when conducting business with foreign companies.
The implementation of such changes by a government or regulatory agency may reduce the prospects of foreign investment, increase operating costs, change the competitive landscape of the industry, or worse, disrupt business models. The absolute power of the government to force companies operating in its territory to comply with the laws of the country shows that there is no solution to regulatory risk.

## Network security risks

As technology becomes the core of organizational establishment and development, having a secure and reliable online network is crucial. This widespread reliance on increasingly complex and sophisticated digital systems makes enterprises vulnerable to cyber threats, often exceeding their ability to prevent and mitigate them. Before companies expand overseas, they must implement a strong security infrastructure to effectively respond to cyber attacks and risks.

According to the 2022 Global Risk Report, according to the report released by the World Economic Forum (WEF), ransomware will increase by 435% in 2020, of which 95% of network security problems can be traced back to Human error. Cyber attacks have become increasingly complex and widespread, as cybercriminals use ransomware and search for vulnerable targets such as healthcare, government agencies, and data-rich companies. Cyber attacks intensified in the COVID-19 crisis and continue to threaten the security protocols of companies expanding into the global market.

## Intellectual Property Risk

The risk of intellectual property (IP) in international business involves the illegal use of your intellectual capital by third parties. Therefore, intellectual property risks can threaten your intellectual capital and financial success, while directly affecting the value of your company's products and services.

Due to the challenge of maintaining commercial power remotely, the impact of intellectual property risks on overseas companies is multifaceted. Therefore, companies engaged in cross-border business transactions must look for potential intellectual property threats, including copyright infringement, patent infringement, brand counterfeiting and trade secret theft.

## Business risk

Business risk in international business refers to the failure of a company due to improper execution of business strategies and procedures. The main reasons may be improper selection of business partners, improper execution of business strategies, and misinterpretation of business agreements due to cultural/linguistic differences.

Although commercial risks are rampant in the domestic market, if a company is located overseas, the consequences of such failures will be even higher. One of the main commercial risks in international trade is a lack of understanding of overseas markets. It can lead to poor pricing and promotion strategies, inappropriate market entry times, and product features that are inconsistent with buyers' target market preferences.

In the worst commercial risk scenario in international business, companies may choose wrong business partners that are inconsistent with their vision and mission. This wrong decision has increased the company's costs. When operating in foreign markets, termination of business partners becomes expensive due to regulations protecting domestic companies.

## Cross cultural risks

Cross cultural risks in international business involve potential challenges faced by companies abroad due to differences in customs, norms, language, lifestyles, etiquette, and customer preferences.

The unique values of a culture are often passed down from generation to generation. Of course, they strongly influence the way employees work and the consumption patterns of buyers. The preferences and characteristics of foreign buyers are different from those of the domestic market. Language adds another layer of complexity as it serves as a gateway to understanding the lifestyles and values of people from other cultures.

In addition, a company with a global team of people from different cultural and racial backgrounds must prioritize diversity and inclusivity, creating a safe and enthusiastic workplace for all. They must also strive to understand the culture and traditions of foreign partners in order to operate smoothly in these markets. This is a wise way to overcome misunderstandings, biases, stereotypes, and discrimination caused by cultural differences, which may hinder international business relations.

## Strategies for reducing international business risks

The international business environment is full of risks, and there is no universally applicable method to mitigate risks. Foreign funded enterprises are more susceptible to foreign exchange risks as they bear political and financial risks.
However, companies expanding overseas can adopt some general strategies to minimize the consequences of risks as much as possible.
Below we list some strategies that enterprises can consider to overcome some risks.

## Financial risk 

In order to cope with financial risks in international business, companies can consider hedging some foreign investments by purchasing currency forwards, options, or futures in the currency market. The purpose of hedging is to limit the risk of adverse price changes in financial assets, which may have a negative impact on the company's profits and investment returns.

## Political risk

If you are considering expanding in a politically unstable region, study the business methods, transactions, opportunities, and challenges of companies already there. Understand what is feasible and not feasible when conducting business in these regions, and what additional security measures you need. You can also consider purchasing political risk insurance to protect your loans and equity investments from government actions.

## Regulatory risk

Unexpected changes in regulations or legal systems in a country/region may bring significant regulatory risks to your international business. Environmental regulations are a serious concern for global companies. Most countries have strict environmental standards for industries applicable to foreign entities. Therefore, respecting local environmental protection measures and regulations can help you smoothly expand internationally.

You can hire local officials or global PEO partners to understand local regulations, from registering business to submitting documents and obtaining relevant permits.

## Logistics risk

Purchasing goods and services is crucial when conducting business overseas. However, the uncertainty of suppliers' ability to deliver on time has led to logistics issues. Enterprises can expand their supply chain by having backup suppliers in multiple countries or distributing supply chains to alleviate this situation.

In addition to the strategies discussed above, ensuring a smooth transition to the international market requires you to take the time to identify suitable potential business partners. Understand how they conduct business overseas as global corporate entities and their business strategies. It is equally important to be sensitive to and respect the culture, customs, norms, and etiquette of foreign peers in order to establish long-term and meaningful business relationships.

## Avoiding International Business Risks

Companies engaged in international business must pay more attention to overseas business risks and strategies to mitigate them. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the importance of risk management in international business before setting up a company overseas.

Even without risks, international expansion is challenging enough. Partners can help you avoid most global business risks related to tax management, compliance, employee misclassification, and more.