# Five tips that you must know when a company goes overseas

Nowadays, with the slowdown of domestic economic development, more and more enterprises are starting to expand their business to a global scale. Expanding business to cross-border e-commerce is a major decision for all enterprises. Let's take a look at a set of statistical data. According to the eMarketer report, after a growth of 25.7% in 2022, global retail e-commerce sales will rise to $4.921 trillion in 2023. It can be observed that in today's global retail environment, this is also a wise idea. According to the same report, India, Brazil, Russia, and Argentina expect retail e-commerce sales to increase by at least 26% this year. There is no sign of a slowdown in global e-commerce development, so now is the time to seize the opportunity.

But before launching a cross-border e-commerce strategy for your company, there are many factors that need to be addressed. Whether your company is a Fortune 500 or a small to medium-sized company, addressing a few areas first can drive your company's success through cross-border trade. So what are the aspects that must be paid attention to when expanding cross-border business? This article will provide a detailed introduction for everyone!

## 1.Embrace Technology

For any industry, there has always been a saying that 'professional people do professional things', which also applies to cross-border industries. Most of the partners who are already on the sea route are already using technology to automate or digitize certain business processes. This professional platform will greatly increase your chances of successfully crossing borders. These software can simplify many complicated processes in cross-border e-commerce, such as Real-time computing of taxes and tariffs, provision of local payments, and support for direct international shipping and logistics. No matter which market your business sells in, certain platforms can also help you provide a localized shopping experience. Through cloud based technology, you will greatly reduce the indirect costs required for globalization. When you encounter complex transportation situations or try to localize online customer shopping experiences, cloud platforms designed to handle cross-border e-commerce can help reduce the load. In addition, the right platform will quickly integrate with your e-commerce platform, so you can reduce time to market and start and run global sales.

## 2.Adjust strategy at any time

Record the steps you took when entering a new market for the first time. Once you successfully launch in one international market, you may use these steps to repeat the process in another market. The dry goods shop here must remind everyone that not all Uusimaa can operate in the same way, but your strategies can be similar. You need to develop a repeatable approach to target new buyers, personalize their experiences, and consolidate your brand in new areas. Through a platform that provides A/B testing, you can optimize every part of the customer journey in each market to maximize conversion rates and effectively increase sales.

## 3.Improve and Personalize Your Information

The information you use in the first market may not resonate with customers in the international market. The cultural differences between countries mean that you need to invest heavily in research to find the correct information for your target audience. Take some time to discover the preferences of new targets, what may make them happy or offend them, and customize your information accordingly. Please remember to keep your marketing materials, website, and customer communication consistent. Generally speaking, extensive research on potential markets will lay a solid foundation for your cross-border strategy, which is a best practice. Through the customer data you collect, you will be able to accurately determine where to invest your dollars and which markets are worth entering. All of this information will help you ultimately create a personalized message architecture that you can use to lock in these customers.

## 4.Pay attention to pricing, landing costs, and payment

No matter where you go, pricing in emerging markets is a very challenging issue. Understanding how to price products to attract new customers while maintaining profitability is crucial for businesses. How much will local consumers pay for certain products? In this way, testing the price elasticity of each market is crucial for determining the tolerance of local audiences towards product pricing. Software solutions can provide a/b testing function so that you can check whether the price increase of certain market products will affect conversion rates. Many retailers use modern cross-border technology to test their pricing and see if small increases in certain products can subsidize free delivery or promotions for these customers. At the same time, it is also important to check the full landing cost of the product. Can you provide consumers with free delivery services for each product? Free delivery may be provided in some markets, but not in other markets. In addition, providing free shipping above the threshold in certain markets or offering flat rate shipping in other markets to protect your profit margin may make sense. Software solutions can provide online merchants with this degree of flexibility and control, so that they can enable unit economics to serve their business. In addition, consider providing customers with various payment options. Consumers in different markets prefer different payment methods. Providing a range of payment options makes the sales process easier and reduces friction between customers and purchases - leading to more sales. Remember, from traditional credit cards to alternative payment methods and digital wallets, as well as Cryptocurrency, you can consider offering a wide range of payments to consumers in different markets.

## 5.Consider expectations for delivery time

Shipping may be one of the biggest challenges for cross-border e-commerce business, and we can take different measures to alleviate such problems. However, please note that before entering a market, it is important to analyze the shipping preferences of customers in different markets. Determine if customers in a specific region have specific expectations for transportation speed. In some markets, consumers may expect free delivery of cross-border goods to arrive within 2-3 days, while in other markets, shoppers may have a longer window time of 4-6 days. In some markets, providing overnight or guaranteed two-day shipping may be important, while in other markets it is not necessary.

When you expand into the international market, you can choose DG.Hire for recruitment, hiring, and onboarding support. As a global EOR, we provide human resources services in 150 countries worldwide. Our main businesses include overseas employment (EOR nominal employers), flexible employment (contractors), salary management (payroll), compliance consulting, global headhunting, and corporate landing. Supports 120 international mainstream currencies, and has 50 legal experts to help you solve compliance and security issues, allowing you to focus on achieving global business growth.

Keywords: overseas employment, flexible employment, salary services, compliance consulting, overseas headhunting, global recruitment, contract compliance, overseas employment, overseas manpower, overseas employees, overseas compensation, salary payment, hiring foreigners, contract compliance, cross-border salary payment, overseas employment compliance, eor, contractor, payroll