# Expand overseas business and establish international branches? Or register a subsidiary?

> Original article address: https://www.dghire.com/info/guide/657b03b811f8dfa1c1870b33293ee8a5

If your company is planning to expand its business in overseas markets, one of the most important questions you need to ask yourself is whether you want to open an overseas branch or a foreign subsidiary. How you answer this question depends on the opportunities you see in the new market and your interest in the regulatory and cultural challenges of the new country/region.

Although some business challenges are the same no matter where you are, others are unique to specific countries/regions. Some of the questions your company may need to answer include:

Do you first need to establish a legal entity in that country/region?

What are the requirements for applying for a visa?

How about employees' work permits and residence permits?

If you comply with all the rules and regulations of overseas countries/regions, how long will it take for your company to legally carry out business?

After considering these questions, you can ask yourself: Should we establish a branch or subsidiary?

## 1、 What is the difference between a branch and a subsidiary?

When deciding whether your company wants to establish a branch or subsidiary in an overseas country/region, you need to determine what your main business interests are, what are the goals of your branch or subsidiary, and how you will handle tax and liability issues.

We will provide the basic information below, but here is a brief breakdown of the differences between branches and subsidiaries.

### 1. Branch connected to parent company

Branch offices are created by the parent company and perform more or less the same business as the parent company in different locations. A good example is a bank branch located in the United States. Famous banks such as Wells Fargo, BB&T, or TD Bank have branches nationwide, all of which engage in the same business as their parent company, namely the banking industry.

### 2. The branch is responsible to the headquarters

Each branch is ultimately responsible to the head office and reports all important data and information to the head office.

### 3. Branch offices usually maintain joint accounts with the head office

In branch offices, account maintenance can be done separately or jointly, but in most cases it is done jointly with the head office.

### 4. The branch is completely controlled by the parent company

The parent company will always have 100% ownership of the branch. Whether the branch is located in the United States or in a foreign country/region, there is no partnership or joint ownership of the branch.

### 5. Parent company is 100% responsible for branch offices

If the branch is involved in any form of litigation or litigation, it means that the responsibility will extend to the parent company. Therefore, if the branch is unable to fulfill its responsibilities, the parent company will need to pay any fines, settlements, or fees. The branch does not have a separate legal identity.

### 6. If the branch loses money, it will be closed

If the parent company opens a branch in an overseas country/region and finds that the institution has little chance of losing money or future profits, it can close the branch.

The person in charge of the branch is called the branch manager. Although they are directly responsible for the activities of the branch, they accept instructions from the head office and report to it.

The operation of subsidiaries is usually based on the following points:

### 1. The subsidiary ultimately belongs to the parent company, but operates as an independent entity

A subsidiary is an entity whose controlling interest is wholly or partially held by another company (usually referred to as a holding company). In this case, the parent company has full or majority ownership.

### 2. Report from subsidiary to holding company

Unlike branch offices, subsidiaries do not report to the parent company. On the contrary, it reports to the holding company that controls it.

### 3. In most cases, subsidiaries will not engage in the same business as the parent company

Sometimes, subsidiaries will conduct exactly the same business as the parent company. However, at other times, it may engage in completely different businesses from the parent company. For example, if the parent company engages in oil business, the subsidiary may engage in retail or telecommunications business.

### 4. Subsidiaries and parent companies maintain their accounts separately

The subsidiary does not maintain its accounts together with the parent company. On the contrary, it is fully responsible for maintaining its own account.

### 5. Parent company has 51% to 100% ownership of subsidiaries

The ownership of subsidiaries depends on the regulations of each country/region. For example, in Saudi Arabia, subsidiaries can be 100% owned by foreign companies. However, other countries/regions may require local ownership of any subsidiary. In Algeria, foreign importing enterprises must include at least 30% of Algeria's ownership of the entity.

### 6. The parent company assumes no responsibility towards its subsidiaries

If a subsidiary from an overseas country/region is involved in any type of litigation, the liability is limited to the subsidiary and does not involve the parent company. The subsidiary has a legal identity independent of the parent company.
### 7. If a subsidiary loses money, it is usually sold to another company

Unlike branches that are closed due to losses, if a subsidiary is unable to make profits or appears unable to maintain profits in the future, it is usually sold to another company in the foreign country/region.

## 2、 What are the advantages and disadvantages of operating a branch or subsidiary?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of operating a branch or subsidiary in an overseas country/region? Both of these operations provide different benefits and challenges for the parent company. As we mentioned above, the parent company ultimately needs to make a choice between branches or subsidiaries based on the goals they want specific business operations to achieve.

### 1. Benefits of operating a branch office

Parent company maintains a higher level of control over branch offices
Due to the branch reporting to the parent company and accepting all its instructions, the parent company plays a much greater role in the decision-making process.

Branches are mainly governed by the laws and regulations of the country/region where the parent company's headquarters is located
Although branches are always required to comply with local rules and regulations in overseas countries/regions, their impact on branches is limited. This means that the parent company can manage its branches more effectively.

The cost of establishing a branch is relatively low

Once the parent company obtains permission to open branches in overseas countries/regions, the process of starting and running it will become easier and the cost will be lower. For example, branch offices do not need to spend time negotiating local share ownership, and in many cases, their indirect costs include renting office space and paying employees' salaries.

Branch offices provide greater tax incentives for the parent company
In most cases, the income of a branch will be treated in accordance with the tax treaty signed between the parent company and the country/region where the branch is located. These treaties eliminate double taxation. So, if the branch needs to pay taxes in foreign countries/regions, these taxes will be recorded in the parent company's tax receipts in the United States.

Branch offices are the simplest form for enterprises to expand their opportunities

Branch offices are the simplest and safest way for a company to expand its brand to overseas countries/regions, explore new markets, and other places.

### 2. Benefits of owning a subsidiary

The subsidiary is independent of its parent company

Due to the fact that subsidiaries in overseas countries/regions are independent legal entities, it makes it easier for them to conduct business, establish partnerships, and explore new markets.

Subsidiaries increase the credibility of the parent company

In many cases, service providers and banks from overseas countries/regions are more willing to conduct business with subsidiaries due to legal and financial reasons.

Subsidiaries are more flexible than branches

Subsidiaries enjoy greater flexibility as they can issue or transfer shares to third parties such as investors, partners, employees, or venture capitalists. Since a subsidiary can be listed on a stock exchange, it can also issue public stocks or bonds.

Subsidiaries can explore more economic opportunities in overseas countries/regions

Although the business of a branch is basically similar to that of its parent company, subsidiaries can explore new economic realities in overseas countries/regions. Therefore, although the branches of retail enterprises mainly adhere to retail, their subsidiaries may be interested in exploring the pharmaceutical market in the same country/region.

Subsidiaries may be able to leverage the cost-effectiveness of overseas countries/regions

A parent company that opens an overseas subsidiary in another country/region is usually able to utilize the country's labor and production costs.

Subsidiaries provide greater responsibility protection for the parent company

Due to the independent legal status of the subsidiary, it provides greater legal protection for the shareholders of the parent company. If the subsidiary falls into debt or encounters legal issues, they will not be held responsible.

## 3、 What are the issues with opening a branch or subsidiary? Although these seemingly tempting incentive measures may seem attractive, opening overseas branches or subsidiaries also faces challenges and problems. Although opening branches or subsidiaries in some countries is relatively simple, the legal requirements and labor laws in other countries/regions are complex and may greatly delay the parent company's request to enter new markets.

### 1. Shortcomings in opening branches

Branch offices make it more difficult for the parent company to explore new business opportunities

Due to the fact that branch offices are largely limited to the activities of the parent company, it becomes more difficult to expand into other potential profit areas.

If a branch incurs debt or encounters legal issues, the parent company shall be held responsible

Unlike its subsidiaries, the parent company bears 100% responsibility for any debts, fines, or legal settlements that the branch is obligated to pay. This also puts the shareholders of the parent company at risk.

Finding employees for the branch

According to overseas labor laws, it is usually more difficult to bring workers from the United States to work abroad. Visa requirements and work permits are often difficult to obtain, and due to quota restrictions, branch offices may only be allowed to hire a certain number of foreign workers.

### 2. Shortcomings in establishing subsidiaries

The cost of establishing and opening subsidiaries is higher

As mentioned above, branch offices usually only require office space. On the other hand, subsidiaries may need factories and face more complex legal issues, such as local ownership and how to tax subsidiaries. When considering establishing a subsidiary, it is important for the parent company to conduct financial due diligence.

Subsidiaries face some regulatory and cultural challenges in overseas countries/regions

Although branch offices face some similar issues as they are mainly controlled by the parent company of the host country, these issues are not as challenging. However, the subsidiary only operates in overseas countries/regions. This means that any parent company wishing to establish a subsidiary must carefully study the cultural, political, and regulatory environment of the overseas country/region. For having a certain proportion of local ownership in a subsidiary, this is actually a strong argument for the supporting party. Owners residing abroad can help the parent company better understand the operational methods of that country/region.

If problems arise, the cost may be high

If a branch proves to be troublesome, the parent company can close it. If it is proven that the subsidiary has problems in terms of profit or revenue, it involves a lot of complex legal and financial issues. Usually, a losing subsidiary is sold to another company in that country/region, which may lead to complex and costly legal and financial negotiations.

## 4、 Let DG.Hire help you establish business in overseas countries/regions

Making decisions between branches and subsidiaries in overseas countries/regions can be a complex and difficult issue, especially when you are interested in expanding in another market as soon as possible. Your company not only needs time to decide how to showcase itself abroad, but also time to study and understand the laws, regulations, and customs of the countries/regions where business is conducted.

There is a simpler and faster way.

If you do not have time to understand the culture, politics, regulations, and laws governing conducting business in a foreign country/region, but still want to expand in that country/region, and your team is ready, please trust DG.Hire

Through our global professional Employers'organization and professional employer model, we combine first-class international human resources and legal expertise. We use our internal infrastructure to help the company recruit teams in 170 countries/regions without the need to establish subsidiaries or branches first.

If you would like to learn more about what we can do for your company in the foreign market, please go to the homepage to contact us. Our team members will contact you as soon as possible.